# Welcome!

Listed here are common guides that we use across multiple projects
related to teaching R, reproducible research, and data science.

This website was created using
[Markdown](https://quarto.org/docs/authoring/markdown-basics.html) to
write the documents, [Quarto](https://quarto.org) to create the book
HTML format, [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) to host the
[Git](https://git-scm.com/) repository of the material, and [GitLab
CI](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/) with
[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) to create the website. The original
source material for this course is found on the
[`guides`](https://gitlab.com/rostools/guides) GitLab repository.

Want to contribute to this course? Check out the
[README](https://gitlab.com/rostools/guides/-/blob/main/README.md) file
as well as the
[CONTRIBUTING](https://gitlab.com/rostools/guides/-/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
file on the GitLab repository for more details. The main way to
contribute is by using [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) and creating a [new
issue](https://gitlab.com/rostools/r-cubed/-/issues/new) to make
comments and give feedback on the material.

## Description

Reproducibility and open scientific practices are increasingly being
requested or required of scientists and researchers, but training on
these practices has not kept pace. This course intends to help bridge
that gap and covers the fundamentals and workflow of data analysis in R.

This repository contains the lesson, lecture, and assignment material
for the course, including the website source files and other associated
course administration files.

For more detail on the course, check out the [welcome
page](https://r-cubed.rostools.org/) and the
[syllabus](https://r-cubed.rostools.org/syllabus.html).

## Instructional Design

The lectures and lessons in this course are designed to be presented
primarily with a participatory live-coding approach. This involves an
instructor typing and running code in
[RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/) in front of the class, while the
class follows along using their own computers. Challenges are
interspersed in the lesson material, allowing participants to
collaboratively work on smaller coding problems for a few minutes. All
lesson materials are provided ahead of time on the course website for
participants to refer to during lectures.

Throughout the course, participants undertake a group project, wherein
they attempt to address a scientific question by applying techniques
learned over the course to a (preferably open) dataset. The assignment
is primarily code-based and is designed to be completed in RStudio using
the R Markdown format.
